# Querying CouchDB
Searching through the CouchDB database to assess reports stored by Djerba. Querying by metadata fields supports downstream assessment of variables through summary tables and assessment of relationships and/or trends.

## Clinical vs Research
CouchDB contains a vast amount of clinical reports, alongside minimal research reports generated by failed clinical reports. RUO reports generated on request are not archived on the database. Major differences in metadata fields are as follows.

Clinical reports are patient-oriented and support metadata fields such as ```primary_cancer``` and associated ```OncoTree Code```. As such, downstream ```treatment_options``` plugins are supported. Further fields include ```site_of_biopsy```, ```sample type``` and ```percent genome altered```.

Research reports are data-oriented and do not support metadata fields such as ```primary_cancer``` and associated ```OncoTree Code```. As such, reports do not support the treatment options subheading. Further fields specific to the clinical reports appear as ```NA```.


<br><br>


# Query Types
A number of query types are supported. Major queries include fetching single or bulk reports by report ID. Metadata querying supports searching by attributes (i.e., clinical, research) and date (i.e., requisition approval and last update). Extensive metadata query is supported for trend assessment. Query types can be viewed under **[Query Types](/queryTypes.md)**.


<br><br>


# Usage Guide
Documentation on how to query CouchDB can be found under **[Usage Guide](/usageGuide.md)**.

